Welcome to The Fundamentals of Butchery.
I'm Chef David Wolfman
from George Brown College.
Today, it's all about fish.
So what we have
here is a farm raised trout.
Very sustainable.
When you're looking for trout,
you want to look for freshness.
You want to make sure
that the flesh bounces back.
You want to have that shocked
look in the eye.
We want to make sure that the gills
are nice and red.
These gills have been taken out
because this is the way they come
when you order them
and all of the fins have been removed.
You also want to make sure
that it's got that fresh smell.
Now, when it comes in, it might have a bit
of a slimy texture to it, which is okay.
It should have a fresh sea smell,
not a fishy smell to it.
And then when you get it,
when you're working with it,
you want to make sure that you pat it dry
to get rid of that bit of slime.
That's because you want to make sure
that it's safe to fillet it
The other thing is, when we're actually
filleting this, this has two filets to it.
So this is known as a round fish.
So there's two filets, one on
the left side and one on the right side.
And we're going to take you through
all the process of taking it apart.